Docs: Add missing markup to Argument Clinic docs (#106876)
python/cpython: Doc/howto/clinic.rst

1. Find a Python builtin that calls either :c:func:`PyArg_ParseTuple`
   or :c:func:`PyArg_ParseTupleAndKeywords`, and hasn't been converted
   to work with Argument Clinic yet.

>    For my example I'm using :py:meth:`!_pickle.Pickler.dump`.

Reviewer: I'm probably missing some context, but is there any reason why it's `_pickle` and not `pickle`?
Would it be useful to do something like:
```suggestion
   For my example I'm using :py:meth:`_pickle.Pickler.dump <pickle.Pickler.dump>`.
```
or even just
```suggestion
   For my example I'm using :py:meth:`_pickle.Pickler.dump <pickle.dump>`.
```
?

Author: It's `_pickle` because that's the C implementation behind `pickle`. I think it makes sense to link to `pickle.Pickler.dump` anyways. Thanks!

> 2. If the call to the :c:func:`!PyArg_Parse*` function uses any of the

Reviewer 2: Visual difference -- `:c:func:` adds `()` at the end. I think it is OK.

   support all of these scenarios.  But these are advanced
   topics—let's do something simpler for your first function.

   Also, if the function has multiple calls to :c:func:`!PyArg_ParseTuple`
   or :c:func:`PyArg_ParseTupleAndKeywords` where it supports different
   types for the same argument, or if the function uses something besides

>    PyArg_Parse functions to parse its arguments, it probably

Reviewer 2: You can use ``` :c:func:`!PyArg_Parse*` ``` here.

Author: ```suggestion
   :c:func:`!PyArg_Parse*` functions to parse its arguments, it probably
```

        Write a pickled representation of obj to the open file.
        [clinic start generated code]*/

> 12. Save and close the file, then run :program:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py` on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. Save and close the file, then run :source:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py` on
```
Why not `:source:` like above?

Author: I think my reasoning was that the instructions tell you to run `clinic.py` as you'd run an executable, hence the `:program:` role. But, I'm not sure my reasoning holds water. Perhaps this is better:

```suggestion
12. Save and close :source:`Modules/_pickle.c`, then run :program:`python3 ./Tools/clinic/clinic.py Modules/_pickle.c` on
```

Author: Alternatively:

```suggestion
12. Save and close the :source:`Modules/_pickle.c`, then run :program:`make clinic` to regenerate
```

        Write a pickled representation of obj to the open file.
        [clinic start generated code]*/

> 12. Save and close the file, then run ``make clinic``

Reviewer 2: Side note: running the script on the specified file and running `make clinic` is not the same. The latter may be more correct, but it is slower.

Author: I know, but generally it's better if contributors use `make clinic`, so I think it makes sense to use that throughout the tutorial. I think the "basic usage" section could be improved to mention how to run clinic directly on a specified file.

Author: I decided to revert these changes as well; we can change it to the Make target in a future PR.

        {"dump", (PyCFunction)__pickle_Pickler_dump, METH_O, __pickle_Pickler_dump__doc__},

    This static structure should be *exactly* the same as the existing static
    :c:type:`!PyMethodDef` structure for this builtin.

    If any of these items differ in *any way*,
    adjust your Argument Clinic function specification and rerun

>     :program:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py` until they *are* the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :source:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py` until they *are* the same.
```

Author: ... or:

```suggestion
    :program:`python3 Tools/clinic/clinic.py Modules/_pickle.c` until they *are* the same.
```

Author: Ah, or perhaps this is the best alternative:

```suggestion
    :program:`make clinic` until they *are* the same.
```

        &_Py_ID(new_unique_py_id)

>     If it does, you'll have to run :program:`Tools/scripts/generate_global_objects.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If it does, you'll have to run :source:`Tools/scripts/generate_global_objects.py`
```
Same.

Author: Some alternatives:

```suggestion
    If it does, you'll have to run :program:`python3 ./Tools/scripts/generate_global_objects.py`
```

or:

```suggestion
    If it does, you'll have to run :program:`make regen-global-objects`
```

Author: I resolved most of these remarks in 971c0584fcb7da8809bd0da854963bdf4f5befcd. Hope that looks ok with you. If not, ping me again.

Reviewer: The advantage of using `:source:` is that it creates a link that might be interesting for people that want to take a look at the code before running it, whereas `:program:` doesn't.  The docs for `:program"` also say it's for "The name of an executable program.", without mentioning commands you have to execute (that might include paths and cmdline args).

Another thing to keep in mind is how the output looks like:
* [Tools/clinic/clinic.py](https://github.com/python/cpython/tree/3.12/Tools/clinic/clinic.py) -- with `:source:` it looks like a link
* **Tools/clinic/clinic.py** -- with `:program:` it looks bold
* ``Tools/clinic/clinic.py`` -- with ` ``...`` ` it looks monospaced and with a different background

I'm actually not a big fan of how `:program:` is rendered, since it looks just like emphasis rather than a command you have to run.  `:source:` is good when talking about the script in general since it creates the link and you don't have to copy-paste it as a command, but for cases where you do (like the ``make regen-global-objects``) I'm thinking that a simple ` ``...`` ` might be a better option (since it would be more akin to an expression like ``var = func(args)``).

Author: > I'm thinking that a simple `` ``...`` `` might be a better option (since it would be more akin to an expression like `var = func(args)`).

I agree; neither `:program:` nor `:source:` are perfect markups here.

Author: Reverted in 47061df9dd03fb10c300f8c67d0d9121948ab79f

then add ``"_impl"`` to the end and use that for the name of the impl function.

For example, if we wanted to rename the C function names generated for

> :py:meth:`!pickle.Pickler.dump`, it'd look like this::

Reviewer: Still missing context, but here there's no `_`, so the link should work if you remove the `!` -- unless it's just an example and no link is needed.

Argument Clinic will show you all the converters it has
available.  For each converter it'll show you all the parameters
it accepts, along with the default value for each parameter.
Just run :program:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py --converters` to see the full list.

How to use the ``Py_buffer`` converter
--------------------------------------

> When using the :c:data:`Py_buffer` converter

Reviewer 2: `Py_buffer` here is not a name of the C variable or constant, but the name of the AC converter. It does not belong neither to the nor to the Python namespaces.

Author: True, good observation. Thanks!

Author: ```suggestion
When using the ``Py_buffer`` converter
```

When using ``subclass_of``, you may also want to use the other
custom argument for ``object()``: ``type``, which lets you set the type
actually used for the parameter.  For example, if you want to ensure
that the object is a subclass of :c:var:`PyUnicode_Type`, you probably want
to use the converter ``object(type='PyUnicodeObject *', subclass_of='&PyUnicode_Type')``.

One possible problem with using Argument Clinic: it takes away some possible
flexibility for the format units starting with ``e``.  When writing a

> :c:func:`PyArg_Parse` call by hand, you could theoretically decide at runtime what

Reviewer 2: I think it means :c:func:`!PyArg_Parse*`.

Author: ```suggestion
:c:func:`!PyArg_Parse*` call by hand, you could theoretically decide at runtime what
```

> encoding string to pass in to :c:func:`PyArg_ParseTuple`.   But now this string must

Reviewer 2: This is not specific to `PyArg_ParseTuple()`, but to all `PyArg_Parse*()` functions, and it refers to the same function mentioned at the beginning of sentence. Maybe write it as "to it" or remove it at all?

Author: I'll try to rewrite this in a better way.

Author: Does f5bb4a318f674840152338b4358b9fe956511ec4 look ok to you?

* Numeric constants (integer and float)
* String constants
* ``True``, ``False``, and ``None``

> * Simple symbolic constants like :py:attr:`sys.maxsize`, which must

Reviewer 2: In some occurrences it is written as ``` :attr:`sys.maxsize` ```, and in others as ``` :data:`sys.maxsize` ```. What role is more appropriate?

Author: I'll investigate. I guess one of the Sphinx experts will know. Cc. @AA-Turner

Author: It looks to me like attr is correct in this case.

Author: Actually, it is annotated with `.. data::` in `Doc/library/sys.rst`, so we should probably use `py:data:` for `sys.maxsize`.

Reviewer 2: `:data:` is purposed for module level variables. Opened #106892 for more global changes.

    foo: Py_ssize_t = sys.maxsize - 1

:py:attr:`sys.maxsize` can have different values on different platforms.  Therefore
Argument Clinic can't simply evaluate that expression locally and hard-code it
in C.  So it stores the default in such a way that it will get evaluated at
runtime, when the user asks for the function's signature.

What namespace is available when the expression is evaluated?  It's evaluated
in the context of the module the builtin came from.  So, if your module has an
attribute called :py:attr:`!max_widgets`, you may simply use it:

.. code-block:: none

    foo: Py_ssize_t = max_widgets

If the symbol isn't found in the current module, it fails over to looking in

> :py:attr:`sys.modules`.  That's how it can find :py:attr:`sys.maxsize` for example.  (Since you

Reviewer 2: Same as above, both roles are used with `sys.modules`.

Author: `sys.modules` is annotated with `.. data::` in `Doc/library/sys.rst`, so let's go with `:py:data:`

don't know in advance what modules the user will load into their interpreter,
it's best to restrict yourself to modules that are preloaded by Python itself.)

Evaluating default values only at runtime means Argument Clinic can't compute
the correct equivalent C default value.  So you need to tell it explicitly.
When you use an expression, you must also specify the equivalent expression

> in C, using the *c_default* parameter to the converter:

Reviewer 2: In other places the bare ``` `` ``` markup is used for the AC converter parameters: ``` ``subclass_of`` ```, ``` ``type`` ```. I think it should be more consistent.

Author: Parameters are usually marked up with pairs of \*, both for C functions and Python functions/methods. I think we should use the same markup for Argument Clinic converters as well, since they are in practice Python functions.

Reviewer 2: Then please update also for other parameters, like `subclass_of`.

Author: I've marked up what I could find in d96fdebe8f252464eac9bfa6582eed29c54f9f30. I might have missed some, though.

To see all the return converters Argument Clinic supports, along with
their parameters (if any),

> just run :program:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py --converters` for the full list.

Reviewer: Here it's a bit trickier because you have an arg.  Depending on what you decided to do with the other `:program:`s, applying this change, sticking to ` ``...`` ` or using something like
```suggestion
just run :source:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py --converters <Tools/clinic/clinic.py>` for the full list.
```
might all be valid options.

Author: or:

```suggestion
just run :program:`python3 ./Tools/clinic/clinic.py --converters` for the full list.
```

Author: I'm not sure `:source:` is better. For now, I've kept this.

Author: Reverted in 47061df9dd03fb10c300f8c67d0d9121948ab79f

    [clinic start generated code]*/

(The functions can be in different modules or classes.  I wrote

> :py:class:`!module.class` in the sample just to illustrate that you must

Reviewer 2: I think that it is rather the AC code than the Python code.

Author: The example is for a fictive module called *module* with a class called *class*. I guess it comes down to how you look at it: When you we refer to `_pickle.Pickler.dump` in the other examples, do we view it as part of the Argument Clinic input and use double backticks, or do we view it as a fully qualified named of a Python method thus with `:py:meth:` markup? I definitely view it as the latter. So, IMO, it makes sense to mark up the fictive module and class using `:py:class:!`.

Author: After reading it again, I now agree with you. I've reverted the markup change. Thanks for noticing this.

Author: See 499ed66666be713b678fa465e24082e92ef61fc5

Each method may only have one argument using this converter, and it must appear
after ``self``, or, if ``self`` is not used, as the first argument.  The argument
will be of type ``PyTypeObject *``.  The argument will not appear in the
:py:attr:`!__text_signature__`.

The ``defining_class`` converter is not compatible with
:py:meth:`!__init__` and :py:meth:`!__new__`

> methods, which cannot use the :c:data:`METH_METHOD` convention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods, which cannot use the :c:data:`!METH_METHOD` convention.
```
I guess this needs a `!` to silence the warning, unless it's an actual target and the warning can be fixed in some other way.

Reviewer 2: I think that the right fix of this issue is to add a reference target for METH_METHOD, so this reference would work. Adding `!` to silence a warning will also prevent rendering a reference when a target be fixed.

There is a declaration
```rst
.. data:: METH_METHOD | METH_FASTCALL | METH_KEYWORDS
```
in Doc/c-api/structures.rst, and it is the only definition of METH_METHOD. Can we add ```.. data:: METH_METHOD``` hidden from the output?

Author: I agree with Serhiy; we should fix the `METH_METHOD` target first. I'll get to it.

Reviewer 2: I am working on this. It is complicated.

Author: For now, I've disabled the `METH_METHOD` link: b155e3862df036ca4559290e35844db70e2616b9

Author: Resolved with 1a30f3b661622d07ff29b0aafc8dda4546c5a999

will be of type ``PyTypeObject *``.  The argument will not appear in the
:py:attr:`!__text_signature__`.

The ``defining_class`` converter is not compatible with :py:meth:`!__init__`

> and :py:meth:`!__new__` methods, which cannot use the :ref:`METH_METHOD

Reviewer 2: BTW you can now use ``` :c:macro:`METH_METHOD` ``` if you prefer.

Author: Oh, that's nice; thanks! I'll apply that before landing.

will be the name of your class with the ``_converter`` suffix
stripped off.  (This is accomplished with a metaclass.)

You shouldn't subclass :py:meth:`!CConverter.__init__`.  Instead, you should
write a :py:meth:`!converter_init` function. :py:meth:`!converter_init`
always accepts a *self* parameter; after that, all additional
parameters *must* be keyword-only.  Any arguments passed in to
the converter in Argument Clinic will be passed along to your
:py:meth:`!converter_init`.

There are some additional members of :py:class:`!CConverter` you may wish
to specify in your subclass.  Here's the current list:

:py:attr:`!type`
    The C type to use for this variable.
    ``type`` should be a Python string specifying the type, e.g. ``int``.
    If this is a pointer type, the type string should end with ``' *'``.

> :py:attr:`!default`

Reviewer 2: Why not the following?
```rst
.. attr:: default
```
You need to declare that the current class is `clinic.CConverter`.

Author: Ah, of course.

will be the name of your class with the ``_converter`` suffix
stripped off.  (This is accomplished with a metaclass.)

You shouldn't subclass :py:meth:`!CConverter.__init__`.  Instead, you should
write a :py:meth:`!converter_init` function. :py:meth:`!converter_init`
always accepts a *self* parameter; after that, all additional
parameters *must* be keyword-only.  Any arguments passed in to
the converter in Argument Clinic will be passed along to your
:py:meth:`!converter_init`.

There are some additional members of :py:class:`!CConverter` you may wish
to specify in your subclass.  Here's the current list:

.. module:: clinic

.. class:: CConverter

   .. attribute:: type

      The C type to use for this variable.
      :attr:`!type` should be a Python string specifying the type,

>       e.g. :class:`int`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      e.g. ``'int'``.
```

Author: Thanks! Resolved with fe52717c58828309065f94e360ed6f6dfe7bb2e3

a custom converter.  Except it's somewhat simpler, because return
converters are themselves much simpler.

Return converters must subclass :py:class:`!CReturnConverter`.
There are no examples yet of custom return converters,
because they are not widely used yet.  If you wish to
write your own return converter, please read :source:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py`,
specifically the implementation of :py:class:`!CReturnConverter` and
all its subclasses.

How to convert ``METH_O`` and ``METH_NOARGS`` functions
-------------------------------------------------------

> To convert a function using :c:data:`METH_O`, make sure the function's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a function using :c:data:`!METH_O`, make sure the function's
```

Author: See https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/106876/files#r1267881674. I think we should add the `METH_O` target first.

Author: Resolved with 8f239567112a90ede907e3131e95da89a229efbb

a custom converter.  Except it's somewhat simpler, because return
converters are themselves much simpler.

Return converters must subclass :py:class:`!CReturnConverter`.
There are no examples yet of custom return converters,
because they are not widely used yet.  If you wish to
write your own return converter, please read :source:`Tools/clinic/clinic.py`,
specifically the implementation of :py:class:`!CReturnConverter` and
all its subclasses.

How to convert ``METH_O`` and ``METH_NOARGS`` functions
-------------------------------------------------------

> To convert a function using :data:`METH_O`, make sure the function's

Reviewer 2: Use `:c:macro:` for `METH_*` constants.

Author: Thanks (and thanks for fixing these recently!). Resolved with 1a30f3b661622d07ff29b0aafc8dda4546c5a999

    [clinic start generated code]*/

> To convert a function using :c:data:`METH_NOARGS`, just don't specify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert a function using :c:data:`!METH_NOARGS`, just don't specify
```

Reviewer 2: I think that
```rst
.. data:: METH_NOARGS
```
should be fixed as
```rst
.. c:data:: METH_NOARGS
```

any arguments.

You can still use a self converter, a return converter, and specify

> a *type* argument to the object converter for :c:data:`METH_O`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a *type* argument to the object converter for :c:data:`!METH_O`.
```
